I want to mention something I want to make sure I
covered. Please do. Over the, you know, the
constant thing over the 30 or so years has been
teaching
that one course and being a graduate advisor in the
department. So a lot of interaction with
undergraduate and graduate students, which I've
enjoyed in both cases. And I've been offered, I
mean, I've been asked so many times, how in the
world do you keep teaching that same course for 30
years? Well, that I don't know. I don't really have
an answer for that, except it's different
students every semester. This is my last semester
to do it this time, and I've just as decided about
doing it as I'd ever be. It kind of feels funny. You
just can't imagine not continuing to do it, to tell
you the truth. But I've continued to enjoy it. But
I've always tried to, at least every couple of
semesters, do something different about the
course. Add something about putting, redoing
audio tapes, or now I've put all the objectives on
the web. Last semester I did that. So something to
keep me a little bit current. And something also to
use different visual aids. And never to be too
rigid in the lecture. Always. Kind of let it flow
and cover things in a different order. But in
addition to that, I think in the university
community, there's so many opportunities to, I
guess, be a servant or grow yourself. And so over
the years, I've advised student clubs. Sometimes
many as four at one time, but mainly I've always had
at least one. Advised core outfits. Served as
advisor to the political forum, student group,
shortly after that. Got to meet Gerald Ford and a
few other prominent people in those years. And
enjoyed the heck out of that. Then served a couple
of years on the MSC Consulate Directorate. Had
a different kind of experience. Faculty senate in
the department. Said, you know, we need to have
somebody from the department be on the faculty
senate. So I get, I mean, I didn't say anything to
anybody. I get nominated and I end up on the faculty
senate. And then. Uh. Hold on a second. Hold on a
second. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. So, Fred
Smines over in Rainside said, well, it's a shame.
We're just going to let John McNermoth be the first
speaker with no competition at all. Somebody
ought to run against him. Wilford, you run against
him. Why, I did. Well, of course. Unfortunate,
deservedly, John. He's elected. But John makes me
the deputy. And then, of course, this greases a
wheel for me to be the speaker the next year. But I'm
keeping all my teaching duties and all my advice
all at the same time. But that was a, see, that was an
outlet of different, and of course, the speaker
year was a, that was a tremendous experience to
interact with all of the higher administrators
and that kind of deal. And it was a, it was an
exciting time for the senate trying to get
established. Did the senate, did the senate come
up with any recommendation that you thought was a
little goofy that you still had as their voice to
support? Uh, I don't know. I don't know. I don't
remember. The only, and this happened actually
after my year as speaker was over, the core
curriculum was being developed during that year,
all that year. And I'm not particularly proud of
it, but I ended up in the final analysis voting
against the final adoption of the core
curriculum. Not because I opposed the core
curriculum, but because there was always in the
development of it, there had been, I quote, a
technological requirement anticipated in it.
And this got washed out at the end. And I, I felt so
strongly about that that I ended up voting no. And I
didn't feel real good about that. But I didn't have
to promote that to the senate. I, no, I don't
remember anything. I'm trying to remember. It had
something to do with women's program or
something. Gosh,
I don't know if I have any notes about this or not.
But Dr. Vandenberg called me into his office. And
he was mad as a hornet. I mean, he was off the wall for
just two or three minutes. Then he calmed down and
we had a good conversation. But I, it was, it was
something about the women's program. I think
something that Ms. Schaffer, that Dr. Schaffer
was the woman in charge of the women's committee
program. I don't, I don't remember the
particulars. But I do remember Dr. Vandenberg, he
was mightily upset when the first one in. But he
calmed down. He calmed down. What do you think?
But, but I did that. And then I became a continuous
improvement facilitator. Let's stay, let's stay
with faculty senate just a second. What do you
think the faculty's role in decision making for
this institution? Ought to be? You
know, I'm kind of comfortable with the senate
being in an advisory role. I, I don't, I don't, I'm
not one of those that quote thinks the faculty
needs to make all the decisions. Because I don't,
the faculty is just one component in the whole
university community. And the, and the
university president ultimately,
yeah,
an organized venue by which the faculty can make
its decisions. To make its feelings known. And I
think on matters of academics, it's, I would hope,
I would hope that the president,
and I think all of them have, tended to support
senate decisions. There have been exceptions, I
guess, but. In the department, should there be a
department head or a department chairman? For,
for department lock hours with a three agency deal
and, and responsibilities, you know. I think the
one thing that he's got to be careful about is the
faculty. As far as the public is concerned. On
Wednesday, whether or not they qualified or not,
uh. Oh, so it got earlier and earlier. Kept getting
earlier and earlier. You had to turn in senior
grades. And it came first.
It worked back three or four days. Oh, so it got
earlier and earlier. It kept getting earlier and
earlier. You had to turn in senior grades. And it
came fast, because seniors were just, I mean, I
taught a big class that would have 25% seniors. And
I guess I did begin to get a little chapped about
them not taking finals, because they would put off
classes like mine for the last semester. So they
didn't have to take my finals. Of all of those
services, which ones were the most satisfying to
you, as you look back? Each one while I was doing it.
I wouldn't want to pick one. I guess the most
different, of course, was being speaker at the
faculty center for a year. Maybe that was the
hideous kind of a deal. Get your tickets to the
Texas game in Austin. We won. A few things like that
I remember very well. But. Yeah. No, in the early
days,
being an advisor to a corps outfit, having come
through the corps, there were a lot of good
experiences associated with that. How do you feel
about the corps as you look back on it now? How do you
feel about the corps today? Much more military
than it was
then. Is it better or worse? Plus, minus? I haven't
had real close contact in recent years, not to see
much on the inside. I think it's been about,
yeah, many more people, I guess you could say, many
more people in the corps who really have a kind of a
pro-military posture. See, when I came through
the corps, many of us were there because we had to be
there. It was either being in the corps or being in
Korea. Yeah. The corps was preferable. It was
preferable. So you had a major, major influence in
the corps of people who were, yeah, we could kind of
tolerate the bull and that kind of stuff and enjoy
some of it, but we never had any dream about being a
military somebody. I feel like there's been more,
I think a lot of that's been, maybe gotten rid of in
recent years, but I feel like there's been a lot
more of what artists call really cheap stuff.
During
all those years, describe a typical week for you
during the academic year. You started at Monday
and did what and how long and so forth. Take a
thorough week. How many nights were you busy and so
forth? Well,
with all of the kind of extracurricular
activities and things I've had, there were
probably not very many nights when I didn't have a
meeting or do something at home. I've
been a bicycle rider for a long time. I've
normally, and I like to get here on the bicycle
before the traffic gets too bad, and I'm normally
not going home until it's not too bad again. So I've
typically been at work from 7.30, 7.45 in the
morning until 5.30 or 6 in the afternoon and
usually bring lunch. We have a big lunch. We have a
big lunch. a bridge playing group here, lunch, but
during the school year, most of the time, I had an 8
o'clock class on Monday, Wednesday, Friday. So
you have to get here early to be ready to go for that.
And I've had 1130 for many years now, 1130 to 1220
class. So even for the bridge playing group, that
cuts you lunch hours. Now what was this second
class? The same class. Oh, same. Two sections. Two
sections. Okay. And what did you tell your
students that your office hours were for them to
come by? You never had office hours. The door was
open. I've always told them the door was open. Call
me. Now it's email. You're welcome to come in any
time you can catch me. That's what I always said.
But I've never set rigid office hours. How would
you compare the quality of the students now? Oh.
With the students when you first got here? That's a
hard read. I suspect, I suspect the overall
quality in terms of academic capability is
better. In terms of maturity, in the sense of the
student knowing who they are and what they're
about, it's not as good now as it was then. Class
attendance generally is much poorer than it was in
those days. Students can't take nearly as heavy a
load as they used to, as I view it. They have, I don't
know how many of them spend their time, but I mean I
can visualize some of the options when you see them
unload all the things they have. I mean there's TV,
there's the internet, there's music, all of them
have cars, they're mobile, they leave here on
weekends. So, I just think there are a lot of
competing things that we can do. So, I think it's a
little bit more interesting to look at the quality
of the students. I don't know if you can do
something about the quality of the students. I
mean I don't know. But, I don't know if you're going
to get an A for students' attention. I don't see as
much interest in learning as a general rule. I just
don't see as much interest in learning. In your.
your grading system now, in other words, what does
it take to make an A now compared to then? I'd like to
tell you it hasn't changed much. What? but not
nearly as many make A's now as they did then. Is that
right? No, sir. What about flunking? Many more
today. Many more. Many more. Yeah, 1 to 3% in the
early days. It runs in the seven, six to 10 now. I
always thought I had to have at least 15% A's in
class. I mean, I felt bad if I didn't have at least
15% A's, and lots of semesters I'd have over 50% A's
and B's. But not now. About 35% A's and B's now most
of the time. It varies from semester to semester.
Last summer, this past summer, but the summer
before, I had a real good class, but this past
summer, terrible. Now, this fall, looks like, I
mean, I had 142, I had 162 in class Monday. Well,
that's not bad. What about women enrollment in the
class now compared to years ago? Well, I've had
some summer classes with more women than men. This
semester, seems that my percentage of women is
quite a bit lower than it's been some time. And I'm
assuming far more urban kids now. Oh yeah, for
sure. Many internationals in the undergraduate
course? Not many. Probably 5% less. I bet there are
a lot more from broken homes than there would have
been 20 years ago. I think that's the big change. I
think kids are about as honest as they've ever
been. I think the ability's there. I think the
maturity factor, in terms of them feeling good
about themselves, having a well-developed
ethos, code to live by. I just think many of them are
not there. Do you have much indication of
scholastic dishonesty now? No, I wouldn't say,
that's what I say. I think they're better. They're
about as honest as they've ever been. I don't see,
I've had a little of that all along, but I don't
think they're any less honest. I think, I've
always said students tend to live up or down to your
expectations in that arena. You have high
expectations of them, in terms of honesty. I think
you generally get it. How many students do you
reckon you taught in that class? I have a record
down the stairs. I don't think I made 18,000, but
I'm close, between 17,500 and 18,000. All right,
now I'm getting near the end.
Among your departmental colleagues, to whom do
you feel the greatest appreciation? I'm
not going to ask you the negative.
Which colleagues are you more grateful to? Well,
probably Larry Wilding, in terms of what a
colleague has meant to me personally. I think he's
a great person. He's a great person. He's a great
person. I thought Larry was a great guy. I thought
he was a great guy. I thought he was a great guy. My
own professional life. Larry's made us all
better. He's certainly been a strong plus for me,
in some of the things I've been able to experience
and
do. Hank Mills was somebody I always have a lot of
respect for. He was a very different guy. He had a
master's degree. Oh, he's Texas country boy. But,
yeah.
I guess in the early years, I had about as close
association with him as anybody. Some pretty good
country wisdom there that he could impart. He
could read students. He could read students.
You're inferring that he was a buddy? Yeah, kind
of. Yeah. Who's been your closest buddies,
friends, in the department or elsewhere on the
campus?
You know, I don't think I could say that I've been, I
don't think I've singled on anybody like that. We
have a departmental bridge group that gets
together once a month, and so I guess you, Larry and
Gladys. So, Larry and Gladys are probably, by
virtue of church and department and everything,
have probably been closer to them. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I think Marcia was always close to Darce
Darby, and Cedric Van Buechman lives down the
street, but I was never, you know, always liked to
interact with Ron and Hans, but never, I've never,
I guess you'd have to say Larry, and yet we don't
spend a lot of time together. Alright, looking up
in the hierarchy, to whom do you think you're most
familiar with? Who do you think, because of what
they have meant to the institution, do you feel the
greatest gratitude at the college and at the
institutional level? Who's been, who did the most
to make A&M better? You think at the college? Well,
of course, I don't have that whole perception.
University, I'd have to say Earl Rutter. Okay.
Because Earl Rutter was... And it doesn't have to
be just one, are there... He was the man in the spot
at the time. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he, he obviously,
his service here preceded me, but I, but I think he
probably considered where A&M was when it came, or
where it was going when he left. He probably had the
most profound influence on anybody that I could
think of. Anybody? In the college? Mm-hmm.
I'm guessing that Patterson probably did as much
to wake it up to what it could possibly be, and
that's more hearsay than any knowledge. I've
never done any very big study on that. Okay.
Probably Harry Conkle. Okay. Now... Let's make
believe that you've been recruited now as the
consultant to advise the department What
would
you advise
the department, and the college, and the
institution of what it should do in the future?
What would you advise this department to do in the
future?
I'm going to go at it the backward way a little bit.
Okay.
Institution. I hope we don't lose sight of what it
is that I think makes A&M unique in terms of can-do
attitude, friendliness, openness, that kind of
thing. And I think, I think some of those things
that contribute most to making it what, I've
always said in my classes, you know, I've been to
Wisconsin, I've been to Cornell, I've been here.
I'm not about to tell you that Texas A&M is the best
institution I've ever been associated with, but I
am going to tell you it's unique. And I really
believe it's unique. And I, particularly what I
consider the positive parts of that uniqueness, I
hope we don't lose. And I don't think those, those
points are going to help us be top ten. I mean, I
think if you get all wrapped up in being top ten, you
know, you're going to get all wrapped up in being
top ten, we can lose, we can lose some things that,
that may not contribute to just being top ten, but
make us unique in a desirable way. So I hope as an
institution we don't lose sight of that. In a
department,
there obviously,
there needs to be an ability to,
to bring all areas along in it. Well, we're going to
have to identify, probably to an extent we haven't
done, we're going to have to identify the areas
where we want to be top flight and where we just want
to be, meet our, quote, academic
responsibilities. I don't think we can be, I don't
think we can be everything to everybody. And I
think, I think at the college level, I think Ed
Heiler has a, you know, that's one of the things I
kind of fault him on. I think he, I think he's not.
He's not gotten beyond us thinking we'd be
everything to everybody. So we've not made some
hard decisions there that we probably could make.
And we probably haven't made some hard ones in the
department that we need to make. The balance that,
right now, in terms of grant dollars, the biotech,
genetics, molecular biology, they're, they're
swinging a big stick.
I think there's a threat to the whole land grant
system. Stemming land. Stemming out of this with
an increased emphasis on patenting genes, on
getting royalties that goes back into plant
breeders' and geneticists' pockets. That an
increasing percentage of the support to do the
research is coming from soft money sources.
There's not, there, there tends to be not nearly in
new faculty the support that we need. There's not
the sense of servanthood that I think befits
people in colleges of agriculture and land grant
institutions. We're losing some of that. And it's
causing, and maybe that's the biggest challenge I
see in the department, is to maintain that, that
spirit of serving the taxpayers who make it
possible for you to be here and have such a, a high
emphasis on feathering your own nest. It tends to
become more materialistic as a, as a faculty. I
don't like that. Are there some, are there some
specialties within this department's scope that
you think ought to get emphasis?
You said it can't be all things to all people. Yeah.
Well, for the, for the major, for the major
commodities in the state. Grains are corn,
cotton,
small grains. We need to maintain a continuity of
expertise from the very base level to the top.
Because in many cases the market for the products
is not sufficiently large that it's going to
attract the large seed companies. And they're
getting bigger all the time. So they only want to do
things that are super small. Great. Thank you.
where there's a big market for a product so we have
to we have to meet the niche for those commodities
we have to maintain expertise in in soil science as
it relates to land use in the broadest sense from
waste disposal to conservation to agricultural
production to sustainability more and more we're
going to see the emphasis be more in at least short
term it's going to be more environmentally
oriented more urban concern oriented than it is
has been a traditional field crop agriculture but
here's some bias and cropping but i think we'd be
terribly remiss if we let our let our expertise and
the broad range of soil science fall but we need to
we can't we can't be really expert in all those
areas and i'd say we'd we'd probably sacrifice
some of what have been a traditional basic science
like soil physics or have to have people that are
functioning more at the interface maybe between
let's say soils and and environmental concerns
soils ecology environment there'll be more
emphasis on integrating integrating that and and
hopefully a lot more cooperation between
departments you know the department wall is a
terrible barrier now we have the faculty
faculties are across departments i don't know
there's no easy answer to that kind of thing if we
could smooth out the barriers that prevent
faculty from interacting across departmental
walls and faculty walls and college walls seem to
be functioning better between universities than
they can between right here on their own campus
some in some instances now that's you know that's a
big deal with douglas he's got us interacting more
but wanted to do it doing it two different things
what were your proudest moments in all these years
as a faculty member here
i guess i guess maybe getting a note from a student
that's life the note seems to say that you've had a
very positive impact on it because i know how many
people think they're going to have a note like that
never do how many times i've thought about doing
something like that and being good so so when i
think that i think that'd be my proudest moment is
to get those get those favorable comments from and
they're not a whole lot of them but when you do get
them
questions summarize what you have in your heart
about what it's to you to be a faculty member here
well i feel i feel just extremely fortunate and
blessed i mean i couldn't i've done what i love to do
and got paid for it family's had a good living it's
been i've i've felt that i've had wonderful
support a lot of opportunities to interact with
literally wow thousands of students of both
graduate and undergraduate